# Building Security
Building and facility security focuses primarily on preventive, deterrent, and detective access controls and workplace safety. Physical security is based upon a layered defense model:
* Obstacles to frustrate trivial attackers and delay serious ones.
* Detective controls make it likely that attacks will be noticed.
* Response mechanisms to repel, catch, or frustrate attackers.


### The basic premise of Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)

CPTED is that the proper design and effective use of the physical environment can lead to a reduction in the incidence and fear of crime. CPTED is a psychological and sociological method of looking at security based upon three constructs:
 * People protect territory they feel is their own, and people have a certain respect for the territory of others.
 * Limiting access discourages intruders and/or marks them as intruders.
 * Intruders do not want to be seen.

### Building Security Deterrent Controls

##### Lighting
Lighting for personnel safety and intruder deterrence.
 * Intruders are less likely to enter well-lit areas.
 * Lighting can be continuous, motion triggered, random, timed, or standby.
 * Lighting should be tamper proof and have a backup power supply.

##### Signs
* Signs for personnel safety and intruder deterrence. Warning signs indicate surveillance (”someone is paying attention”)

##### Physical Barrier
* Fences, walls , gates, barricades, and bollards define the perimeter. They serve to prevent, deter, or delay (increase workfactor) an attack.

##### Security Guards
* Security personnel may be stationed at checkpoints, patrol the area, manage surveillance, and respond to breaches and/or suspicious activity.

### Locks
| Type |  Description |
|------|--------------|
| Conventional Lock | Key controlled cylinder - susceptible to ’bumping’. |
| Pick Resistant Lock | Conventional locks that have complex and difficult to reproduce keys. |
| Cipher Lock | Uses a programmable key pad. |
| Electronic (digital) Lock | Cipher lock with centralized control and auditing capabilities. |
| Biometric | Biometric recognition — may also require a key code. |

Key management includes risk assessments, design, control, and monitoring
of the lock system as well as inventory, assignment, distribution, and
collection of keys and codes. This task is usually done by physical or building
security personnel.

### Facility Design Considerations
Secure design controls for spaces within a facility include (but are not limited to):
* Structural protection such as full height walls, fireproof ceilings, and restricted vent access.
* Cable lock hooks (for securing mobile /small form factor devices).
* Alarmed, solid, fireproof, lockable, and observable doors.
* Alarmed, locking, unbreakable windows.
* Safes and secure cabinets.
* Nonconductive flooring.
* Screen filters.

### Entrance / Exit Access Control
##### ID Card / Badge
* Identification card with or without picture (non-electronic). Prominently displayed.

##### Smart card
* Card with integrated circuitry used in conjunction with a card reader.

##### Biometric
* Use of biometric technology to identify and authenticate a person.

##### Access Logs
* Logs Requirement to document access (sign-in/sign-out). Generally combined with the requirement to show identifications (e.g. driver's license).

##### Audit Logs
* Logs generated by smart and biometric systems.

### Mantrap
A mantrap is a two tier barrier. Entry door on one side and an exit door on the opposite side. One door of a mantrap cannot be unlocked and opened until the opposite door has been closed and locked.

### Surveillance
Surveillance technologies such as closed-circuit TV (CCTV) and camera systems can be used to monitor and detect suspicious, abnormal, or unwanted behavior.
A surveillance system can:
* Provide enough detail to determine the type of incident response.
* Identify the presence of an intruder
* Trigger an alarm or an alert.
* Provide evidence.

### Intrusion Detection Systems
Physical intrusion detection systems (IDS) identify and alert the organization to unauthorized access or changes in the environment.
IDS sensors include:

* Photoelectric or photometric: Changes in light.
* Acoustical-seismic detection: Changes in noise.
* Contact: Electrical circuit is broken.
* Proximity: Measurable magnetic field.
* Passive Infrared: Changes in heat.
* Motion: Detectable motion.

### Fail Safe | Fall Secure
In event of an emergency, the organization’s security structure must comply with safety, fire, and building codes.
* Fail-Safe implies that in a emergency situation, ingress/egress controls will default to open.
* Fail-Secure implies that in an emergency situation, ingress / egress controls will default to locked.

### Emergency Safety Plans and Drills
Safety plans including evacuation routes and ”safe locations” should be posted and personnel trained.
* Meeting places should be pre-assigned.
* Evacuation, shelter-in-place, and lock-down drills practiced.
* If circumstances allow, personnel should be instructed to secure confidential material and take access control devices with them.
* No matter what else is happening — human life and safety is always the number one priority.
